- [Main output](#main-output)
- [Modules](#modules)
  - [extract](#extract)
  - [tag\_barcode](#tag_barcode)
  - [multiqc-sgr](#multiqc-sgr)
  - [pipeline\_info](#pipeline_info)
  - [fastqc(optional)](#fastqcoptional)

# Main output

- `tag_barcode/{sample}.filtered.tag_barcode.csv.gz` antibody-derived tags (ADT) UMI matrix aftering filtering protein aggregation. Protein aggregates in antibody staining experiments may cause a significant increase in the UMI counts of a few cell barcodes. To address this issue, the `tag_barcode` module 
removes any antibody UMI counts that exceed max(10000, total antibody UMI counts * 0.01).

Downstream analysis code snippet using [Seurat V5](https://satijalab.org/seurat/articles/multimodal_vignette.html)
```R
library(Seurat)
# Load in the RNA UMI matrix
cbmc.rna = Read10X('data/match/X/filtered')
# Load in the ADT UMI matrix
cbmc.adt = as.sparse(read.csv(file = "sccite/test/outs/tag_barcode/X.filtered.tag_barcode.csv.gz",
    sep = ",", header = TRUE, row.names = 1))
all.equal(colnames(cbmc.rna), colnames(cbmc.adt))
cbmc <- CreateSeuratObject(counts = cbmc.rna,names.delim = ' ')
adt_assay <- CreateAssay5Object(counts = cbmc.adt)
cbmc[["ADT"]] <- adt_assay
```

- `multiqc/multiqc_report.html` HTML report containing QC metrics.


# Modules

## extract

Extract valid barcode and UMI from R1 fastqs and add them to the read name of R2 fastqs.

**Output files** 
- `{sample}.{R2}.fq.gz` Fastq files with barcodes added.

## tag_barcode

Locate the tag barcode in the R2 reads, generate the ADT UMI matrix, and filter out the abnormally high UMI counts.

**Output files** 
- `{sample}.raw.tag_barcode.csv.gz` Raw ADT UMI matrix.
- `{sample}.filtered.tag_barcode.csv.gz` Filtered ADT UMI matrix.
- `{sample}.aggregate.csv` Barcode and antibody combinations removed due to abnormally high UMIs.

## multiqc-sgr

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

[multiqc-sgr](https://pypi.org/project/multiqc-sgr/) adds some modules on this basis to facilitate the visualization of single cell-related data.

**Output files**

- `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
- `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
- `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

## pipeline_info

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.

**Output files**

- Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
- Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
- Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.
- Parameters used by the pipeline run: `params.json`.

## fastqc(optional)

[FastQC](http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/) gives general quality metrics about your sequenced reads. It provides information about the quality score distribution across your reads, per base sequence content (%A/T/G/C), adapter contamination and overrepresented sequences. For further reading and documentation see the [FastQC help pages](http://www.bioinformatics.babraham.ac.uk/projects/fastqc/Help/).

**Output files**

- `*_fastqc.html`: FastQC report containing quality metrics.
- `*_fastqc.zip`: Zip archive containing the FastQC report, tab-delimited data file and plot images.
